W3:DLR RULES

Attacking always costs 2 MP, regardless of how much it would normally
cost you to enter the terrain.  However, you can attack if you only have
1 MP remaining.

If fog of war is on, then the fog is not removed from spaces which
should be newly visible after a successful attack.

Exploring a ruin uses no MP, but you can't do it if any unit in your
group has 0 MP remaining.

Up to 2 MP left over at the end of your turn will be added to the unit's
movement allowance on the next turn.  Newly built units also get the 2
MP bonus.  Summoned units, allies, and mercenaries arrive with a full
movement allowance but no bonus.

Group warding only uses the value of the single best unit in the stack
(the combat.txt file is somewhat misleading on this point).

In the Cities Report, if you select the History option, for any city
that is currently visible on your map, you can see who controlled it on
each previous turn of the game (even before you explored the map to
reveal it).

Ability Points may be saved unused and then used at any time.

When APs are used to increase Movement, there is no increase in MPs
until the next turn.  Similarly, when a spell is cast which increases
Movement, there is no increase in MPs until the next turn.

Spells, items, or hero abilities that increase group movement are
effective only at the start of the turn.  Any unit grouped (or stacked?)
with the hero at the start of the turn will receive the benefit, even if
it ungroups during the turn.  A unit not with the hero at the start of
the turn will receive no benefit, even if it groups with the hero during
the turn.

If multiple spells giving group move bonuses are in effect, only the
highest bonus applies.

Casting a duration spell (as opposed to an instant spell like summoning)
subtracts the cost in Mana from your total immediately (and you must
have enough).  On each subsequent turn that the spell remains in effect,
the same cost is subtracted from your mana income and (if that is not
enough) from your mana total.  If you don't have enough mana then the
spell is cancelled.

Each mana crystal increases your mana total by 1, and permanently
increases your mana income and mana limit by 1.  Hidden ruins
(Strongholds) can contain up to 10 mana crystals.

When moving you can "hop" directly over friendly or allied units, paying
the normal MP cost for the space they occupy.

Invisible units can be detected by moving the cursor over them, as can
units in areas covered by "fog of war".  An invisible stack becomes
visible for the rest of your turn if you attack it.  An invisible hero
in an area visible to you will show up in Hero Levels if you select All
Heroes.

If an enemy hero is in the visible area of your map, then you can get
some information about it by selecting Hero Levels, then All Heroes.
Right-click on the enemy hero in the listing for additional info.  This
works even if the enemy hero is inside a city and See in Cities is off,
and also even if the enemy hero is invisible.  (If the hero is
invisible, then the right-click will show an eyeball symbol.)

All water spaces (including those which are part land, such as coasts
and lakes) are connected to one another if they are adjacent: a unit at
sea can move from any water space to an adjacent water space even if the
water in those two spaces does not appear to connect.

Quests to kill an enemy leader or enemy units reveal the location of the
enemy leader or units on the Show Quest map, even if you could not
normally see those units.  (Perhaps this even includes invisible heroes
and units?)  Quests to explore cities, ruins, or sites can reveal the
location or direction of those landmarks even if they would not normally
be visible.

Stacks with Woods move bonus can move through Woods+Hills for only 2 MP,
while stacks with Hills move bonus pay the full 5 MP.  Probably a
similar statement applies to other combinations such as Woods+Marsh.

Port spaces cost only 1 MP for non-flying units to enter, even if those
units are on land at the time.  The path-finding algorithm doesn't seem
to know about the reduced cost for ports.

Some water spaces cost 2 MP for naval units to enter, rather than the
normal 1 MP.  (I have only seen this in constructed scenarios.  I
believe it doesn't happen on random maps.)

Some spaces of razed cities cost 5 MP to enter; others cost 2 MP.  I
haven't detected a pattern, or a way to tell the difference except by
trial movement.

If flying units are stacked with ships, then the entire stack moves
through normal water spaces at a cost of 1 MP.  This can be used to
accelerate the movement of flying units.  If the stack moves to land,
all units pay the normal cost to enter the land space, but only the
units on ships pay the boat penalty.

In order for a unit on a ship to move to a land (not coast) space, it
has to have enough movement points remaining to pay the cost to enter
the land space that it is moving to.  However, it doesn't have to be
able to pay the boat penalty.

The cost to move into the space of a ruin is the cost of entering the
underlying terrain.  The terrain type is generally obvious, but can
sometimes be difficult to determine except by experiment.

If a city is attacked, all units in the city receive the bonuses due to
any unit in the city, regardless of which space it is in.  Units in
different spaces of the city can combine for the banding bonus.  Units
in a city (or on a site or ruin?) can receive a terrain bonus if the
underlying terrain is of the correct type.

Bridge spaces do not count as "open" for terrain bonuses.  (Is coastal
terrain a separate terrain type?)

Mercenary or ally reward for easy quest is 5 turns production (five
1-turn units, or two 2-turn units, or one 3+-turn unit) of mercenary
slot 1 or ally slot 1.  Mercenary or ally reward for medium quest is 12
turns production of slot 1/2/3 unit with probability 33%/33%/33%.
Reward for hard quest is 20(?) turns production; ally comes from slot
1/2/3/4 with prob 16%/16%/33%/33%, mercenary distribution is unknown.
(Note that these represent changes from the printed rulebook.)

When a new hero for hire is accompanied by allies, those allies are
selected from slot 1/2/3/4 with probability 40%/30%/20%/10%.

If you hire mercenaries, summon units, or receive quest rewards in
cities with site bonuses, those site bonuses also apply to the
mercenaries or summoned units!

If a site is contributing its bonus to a city which is razed, the bonus
is transferred to the next closest city.

When all cities are exposed (at least partially out of black) then the
whole map will be revealed.

When there are 1000 armies on the map, no more will be built or received
until some are eliminated.  (So disband a few before completing your
quest!)

Spells generally have double effect when caster is level 6+.  Triple
effect when level 9+?  Some spells increase in different ways.

Banishment is mostly broken: it only banishes (level of caster) number
of summoned units, random chosen from among those in range.

New hero comes from slot 1/2/3/4 with probability 40%/30%/20%/10%.  Cost
of new hero is 300-700 if you have no heroes, 600-1600 if you do.  If
you have enough gold, the base chance of a new hero arriving is 50% if
you have no heroes, 20% if you do.  Chance is increased by 1% for each
50gp over 1000gp, and reduced by 5% for each hero you already have.
There is no limit on how many heroes you can have.

Mercenary cost depends only on Strength of the unit.  (Standard cost for
strength 1/2/3/4/5/6/7/8/9 is 5/10/15/20/50/100/150/200/???.)  Each
level of Renown gives +8% chance of receiving mercs with that hero (if
the hero is in a city), and reduces cost.  If you have more than one
hero with Renown, only one is effective (random choice?).

Allies and mercenaries have no cost for upkeep?  And may not receive
medals?  (Neither of these checked.)

When playing with Diplomacy On, if all surviving players have Alliance
status with one another, the game will end in alliance victory.

A quest to recover an item which is in a hidden ruin will reveal that
ruin to the player.

Summoned units always seem to fight first, regardless of fight order and
regardless of the fact that when the stack is formed they seem to be in
a different position.  (This applies only to summoned units that aren't
in your army set.  Summoned units of types in your army set will fight
with the chosen fight order for that army type.)
